Pg. 110-121.

### 1. Structure

A `switch` statement is a complex decision-making structure in which a single value is evaluated and flow is redirected to
the first matching branch, known as a `case` statement. If no such `case` statement is found, an optional `default` statement
will be called. If no such `default` option is available, the entire `switch` statement will be skipped.

Structure of a `switch` statement:

```
switch(variableToTest) {        // parentheses and braces required
    case constantExpression:
        // branch for case 1
        break; // optional
    case constantExpression2, constantExpression3
        // branch for case 2 and 3
        break; // optional
    default:   // optional
        // branch for default
}
```

Combining cases like case 2 and 3 above are only possible like that since Java 14. Prior to that it would have been
`case 2: case 3:`

### 2. Break statement

A `break` statement terminates the switch statement and returns flow control to the enclosing process. The `break`
statements are optional, but without them the code will execute every branch following the matching `case` statement, including
any `default` statement it finds.

### 3. Data Types

The following is a list of all data types supported by `switch` statements:

- int and Integer
- byte and Byte
- short and Short
- char and Character
- String
- enum values
- var (if the type resolves to one of the preceding types)

Acceptable case values:

- the values in each `case` statement must be compile-time constant values of the same data type as the `switch` value
- only literals, enum constants, or `final` constant variables of the same data type
- expressions are allowed, provided the value can be resolved at compile-time, and they fit in the `switch` data type
  without an explicit cast

### 4. Switch Expression

This feature is only available since Java 14. The `switch` expression is a much more compact form of a switch statement,
capable of returning a value.

The structure of a `switch` expression:

```
int result = switch(variableToTest) {   // parentheses and braces required
    case constantExpression -> 5;       // semicolon required
    case constantExpression2, constantExpression3 -> {
        yield 10;                       // yield required for case block if switch returns a value
    }
    default -> 20;
};
```

Rules:

- semicolon is required after each `switch` expression and `case` or `default` block
- `case` statements can take multiple values, separated by commas
- `break` statements are not required, since only one branch is executed
- it is possible to use switch expressions without assigning a value
- all of the branches of a switch expression that do not throw an exception must return a consistent data type, if
  the `switch` expression returns a value
- if the `switch` expression returns a value, then every branch that isn't an expression must yield a value
- a `default` branch is required unless all cases are covered or no value is returned

**Consistent data types:**

```
int measurement = 10;
int size = switch(measurement) {
    case 5 -> 1;
    case 10 -> (short)2;
    default -> 5;
    case 20 -> "3";         // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 40 -> 4L;          // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 50 -> null;        // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

`short` can be implicitly cast to an `int`, but the last 3 values cannot be assigned to an `int` variable.

**The yield keyword:**

The `yield` keyword is equivalent to a `return` statement within a `switch` expression and is used to avoid amiguity about
whether you meant to exit the block or method around the `switch` expression.

The `yield` statement is **mandatory if the switch statement returns a value**:

```
int fish = 5;
int length = 12;
var name = switch(fish) {
    case 1 -> "Goldfish";
    case 2 -> {}            // DOES NOT COMPILE, MISSING YIELD STATEMENT
    case 3 -> {
        if(length>10) yield "Blobfish";
    }                       // DOES NOT COMPILE, MISSING RETURN VALUE IF LENGTH IS SMALLER OR EQUAL TO 10
    default -> "Swordfish";
};
```

Semicolons should not be used after case blocks with `yield`:

```
var name = switch(fish) {
    case 1 -> "Goldfish"            // DOES NOT COMPILE, MISSING SEMICOLON
    case 2 -> {yield "Trout";};     // DOES NOT COMPILE, EXTRA SEMICOLON AT THE END
}                                   // DOES NOT COMPILE, MISSING SEMICOLON
```

**Covering all possible values:**

A `switch` expression that returns a value must handle all possible input values.

Example:

```
String type = switch(canis) {   // DOES NOT COMPILE
    case 1 -> "dog";
    case 2 -> "wolf";
    case 3 -> "coyote";
};
```

There is no case to cover 5, and numbers above. There are 2 ways to address this:

1. Add a `default` branch
2. If the `switch` expression takes an enum value, add a `case` branch for every possible enu, value
