Pg. 124-139.

There are 2 types of `for` loops:

1. the _basic_ `for` loop
2. the _enhanced_ `for` (`for-each`) loop

### 1. The `for` loop

Structure for a basic for loop:

```
for(initialization; booleanExpression; updateStatement) {       // braces are optional for single statements
    // body
}
```

Order of execution:

1. Initialization statement
2. If booleanExpression is true, continue, else exit loop
3. Body executes
4. Execute updateStatement
5. Return to step 2

Variables declared before the loop can be used:

```
int i = 10;
for(i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
    System.out.println("Value is: " + i);
System.out.println(i);
}
```

`var` can also be used:

```
for(var counter = 5; counter > 0; counter--) {
    System.out.println(counter + " ");
}
```

### Examples

**Creating an infinite loop**

Each component of the `for` loop is optional, so this compiles"

```
for( ; ;)
    System.out.println("Hello world");
```

**Adding Multiple Terms to the for statement**

Multiple variables can be used in the initialization/boolean/update statements:

```
int x = 0;
for(long y = 0, z = 4; x < 5 && y < 10; x++, y++) {
    System.out.println(y + " ");
}
System.out.println(x + " ");
```

**Redeclaring a variable in the initialization block**

We cannot use an already declared variable in the initialization statement:

```
int x = 0;
for(int x = 4; x < 5; x++)      // DOES NOT COMPILE
    System.out.print(x + " ");
```

**Using incompatible data types in the initialization block**

The variables in the initialization block must be all of the same type:

```
int x = 0;
for(long y = 0, int z = 4; x < 5; x++)      // DOES NOT COMPILE
    System.out.print(y + " ");
```

**Using loop variables outside the loop**

```
for(long y = 0, x = 4; x < 5 && y < 10; x++, y++)
    System.out.print(y + " ");
System.out.print(x);            // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

### 2. The for-each loop

Structure of the for-each loop:

```
for (datatype instance: collection) {   // braces are optional for single statements
    // body
}
```

The for-each loop declaration is composed of an initialization section and an bject to be iterated over.
The right side of the for-each loop must be one of the following:

- A build-in Java array
- An object whose type implements `java.lang.Iterable`, for example `List` or `Set`. This does not include all of the
  Collections Framework classes or interfaces, but only those that implement or extend the `Collection` interface (for example,
  `Map` is not supported)

The left side of the for-each loop must include a declaration for an instance of a variable whose type is compatible with the
type of the array or collection on the right side of the statement.

```
public void printNames(String[] names) {
    for (var name : names)
        System.out.println(name);
}
```

**Examples**

The following examples does not compile, because `String` does not implement the `Iterable` interface.

```
String birds = "Jay";
for(String bird : birds)    // DOES NOT COMPILE
    System.out.print(bird + " ");
```

The following example does not compile, because the left side of the statement is `int` and doesn't match the expected type of
`String`.

```
String[] sloths = new String[3];
for(int sloth : sloths)         // DOES NOT COMPILE
    System.out.print(sloth + " ");
```

### 3. Controlling Flow with Branching

#### Nested Loops

A _nested loop_ is a loop that contains another loop:

```
int[][] myComplexArray = {{5,2,1,3},{3,9,8,9},{5,7,12,7}}

for(int[] mySimpleArray : myComplexArray) {
    for(int i=0; i<mySimpleArray.length; i++) {
        System.out.print(mySimpleArray[i]+"\t");
    }
    System.out.println();
}
```

#### Optional Labels

A _label_ is an optional pointer to the head of a statement that allows the application flow to jump to it or break from it.
It is a single identifier that is followed by a colon (:). Labels follow the same rules for formatting as identifiers. For
readability, they are commonly expressed using uppercase letters in snake case.

```
int frog = 15;
BAD_IDEA: if(frog>10)
    EVEN_WORSE_IDEA: {
        frog++;
    }
```

#### The break statement

A _break_ statement transfers the flow of control out to the enclosing statement. The `break` statement will terminate the
nearest inner loop it is currently in the process of executing. The optional label parameter allows us to break out of a
higher-level outer loop.

The structure of a break statement:

```
optionalLabel: while(booleanExpression) {
    // Body
    break optionalLabel;
}
```

#### The continue statement

The _continue_ statement causes the flow to finish the execution of the current loop iteration. Like the break statement,
the continue statement is applied to the nearest inner loop under execution, using optional label statements to override this
behaviour.

The structure of a continue statement:

```
optionalLabel: while(booleanExpression) {
    // Body
    continue optionalLabel;
}
```

#### Unreachable code

In case of `break`, `continue`, and `return`, any code placed immediately after them in the same block is considered unreachable
and will not compile:

```
int checkDate = 0;
while(checkDate>10) {
    checkDate++;
    if(checkDate>100) {
        break;
        checkDate++;    // DOES NOT COMPILE
    }
}
```
