Pg. 220-232.

### 1. Structure of a method

The following is called a _method declaration_, which specifies all the information needed to call the method:

```
public final void nap(int minutes) throws InterruptedException {
    // take a nap
}
```

The method name and the parameter list are called the _method signature_. The method signature provides instructions for how the callers
can reference this method. The method signature does not include the return type and access modifiers.

| Element            | Value in nap() example      | Required                         |
| ------------------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Access modifier    | public                      | No                               |
| Optional specifier | final                       | No                               |
| Return type        | void                        | Yes                              |
| Method name        | nap                         | Yes                              |
| Parameter list     | (int minutes)               | Yes, but can be empty            |
| Method signature   | nap(int minutes)            | Yes                              |
| Exception list     | throws InterruptedException | No                               |
| Method body        | { // take a nap }           | Yes, except for abstract methods |

#### Access Modifiers

An access modifier determines what classes a method can be accessed from.

- **private**: The `private` modifier means the method can be called only from within the same class.
- **Package Access**: With package access, the method can be called only from a class in the same package. This one is tricky because there is
  no keyword. You simply omit the access modifier. Package access is sometimes referred to as package-private or default access.
- **protected**: The `protected` modifier means the method can be called only from a class in the same package or a subclass.
- **public**: The `public` modifier means the method can be called from anywhere.

Rules for access modifiers are also applicable to classes and other types (interfaces, enums, records, etc.).

#### Optional Specifiers

While access modifiers and optional specifiers can appear in any order, they must all appear before the return type. After the return type,
the rest of the parts of the method are written in a specific order: name, parameter list, exception list, body.

- `static`: Indicates the method is a member of the shared class object
- `abstract`: Used in an abstract class or interface when the method body is excluded
- `final`: Specifies that the method may not be overridden in a sub-class
- `default`: Used in an interface to provide a default implementation of a method for classes that implement the interface
- `synchronized`: Used with multithreaded code
- `native`: Used when interacting with code written in another language
- `strictfp`: Used for making floating-point calculations portable

#### Return Type

The return type must appear after any access modifiers or optional specifiers and before the method name. Methods with a return type other than
`void` are required to have a `return` statement inside the method body. This `return` statement must include the primitive or object to be
returned. Methods that have a return type of `void` are permitted to have `return` statement with no value returned or omit the `return`
statement entirely.

Tricky examples:

```
String hike7(int a){            // DOES NOT COMPILE
    if(1<2) return "orange";
}
```

The above code does not compile, because the method does not return anything in case the if statement evaluates to false (it doesn't matter,
that we know that it will always be true).

```
String hike8(int a) {
    if(1<2) return "orange";
    return "apple";             // COMPILER WARNING
}
```

The above code compiles, although the compiler will produce a warning about unreachable code.

#### Method Name

Method names follow the same rules as variable names.

#### Parameter List

Although the parameter list is required, it doesn't have to contain any parameters. If we do have multiple parameters, we separate them
with a comma.

```
public void run() {}
public void run2(int a, int b) {}
```

#### Method Signature

A method signature is composed of the method name and the parameter list. The parameter list is about the types of the parameters and their order.
For example, the following two methods have the exact same signature:

```
public void visitZoo(String name, int waitTime) {}
public void visitZoo(String attraction, int rainFall) {}    // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

Despite having different parameter names, these two methods have the same signature and cannot be declared within the same class. Changing the
order of the parameter types does allow the method to compile though.

#### Exception List

While the list of exceptions is optional, it may be required by the compiler, depending on what appears inside of the method body.

```
public void twoExcpetions() throws IllegalArgumentException, InterruptedException {}
```

#### Method Body

Methods are required to have a body unless they are declared `abstract`. A method body is simply a code block, it has braces that contain
zero or more statements.

### 2. Local and Instance Variables

Local variables are those defined in a method or block, while instance variables are those that are defined as a member of a class.

#### Local Variable Modifiers

There's only one modifier that can be applied to a local variable: `final`. The rule is that we don't need to assign a value when a
`final` variable is declared, it's only that it must be assigned a value before it can be used. We can even use `var` and `final` together.

The `final` attribute only refers to the variable reference, the contents can be freely modified (assuming the object isn't
immutable).

```
public void zooAnimalCheckup() {
    final int rest = 5;
    final Animal giraffe = new Animal();
    final int[] friends = new int[5];

    giraffe.setName("George");
    firends[2] = 2;
}
```

#### Effectively Final Variables

An _effectively final_ local variable is one that is not modified after it is assigned, meaning that the value of a variable doesn't change
after it is set, regardless of whether it is explicitly marked as `final`.

For example, `name` is effectively final:

```
public String zooFriends() {
    String name = "Harry the Hippo";
    return name;
}
```

#### Instance Variable Modifiers

Optional specifiers for instance variables:

- `final`: Specifies that the instance variable must be initialized with each instance of the class exaclty once.
- `volatile`: Instructs the JVM that the value in this variable may be modified by other threads.
- `transient`: Used to indicate that an instance variable should not be serialized with the class.

If an instance variable is marked `final`, then it must be assigned a value when it is declared or when the object is instantiated.
It also cannot be assigned a value more than once.

```
public class PolarBear {
    final int age = 10;
    final int fishEaten;
    final String name;

    { fishEaten = 10; }

    public PolarBear() {
        name = "Robert";
    }
}
```

The `age` variable is given a value when it is declared, while the `fishEaten` variable is assigned a value in an instance initializer.
The `name` variable is given a value in the no-argument constructor.
