Pg. 286-304.

### 1. Declaring Constructors

A constructor is a special method that matches the name of the class and has no return type. A class can have multiple constructors, as long as
each constructor has a unique constructor signature. Constructors are called with the `new` keyword along with the class name.

```
public class Turtle {
    private String name;
    public Turtle() {
        name = "John Doe";
    }
    public Turtle(int age) {}
    public Turtle(long age) {}
    public Turtle(String newName, String... favoriteFoods) {
        name = newName;
    }
}
```

**If we don't include any constructors in the class, Java will create one without any parameters.** This is called the _default constructor_.
It only makes an appearance in the cmpiled file with the .class extension.

#### Calling Overloaded Constructors with this()

With `this()` we can call another constructor on the same instance of the class.

```
public class Hamster {
    private String color;
    private int weight;
    public Hamster(int weight, String color) {
        this.weight = weight;
        this.color = color;
    }
    public Hamster(int weight) {
        this(weight, "brown");
    }
}
```

#### Calling Parent Constructors with super()

The first statement of every constructor is a call to a parent constructor using `super()` or another constructor in the class using `this()`. The
Java compiler automatically inserts a call to the no-argument constructor `super()` if we do not explicitly call `this()` or `super()` as the first line
of a constructor.

Tricky examples:

```
public class Mammal {
    public Mammal(int age) {}
}

public class Seal extends Mammal {}     // DOES NOT COMPILE

public class Elephant extends Mammal {
    public Elephant() {}                // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

The above examples do not compile, because with `super()` they call a non-existent constructor (no arg constructor). In this case, we need to call the
constructor explicitly:

```
public class Seal extens Mammal {
    public Seal() {
        super(6);
    }
}
```

#### Rules

- A class can contain many overloaded constructors, provided the signature for each is distinct.
- The compiler inserts a default no-argument constructor if no constructors are declared.
- If a constructor calls `this()`, then it must be the first line of the constructor.
- Java does not allow cyclic constructor calls.
- The first line of every constructor is a call to a parent constructor using `super()` or an overloaded constructor using `this()`.
- If the constructor does not contain a `this()` or `super()` reference, then the compiler automatically inserts `super()` with no arguments
  as the first line of the constructor.
- If a constructor calls `super()`, then it must be the first line of the constructor.
- `super()` always refers to the most direct parent

### 2. Initializing Objects

**Order of initialization for a class:**

- If there is a superclass Y of X, then initialize class Y first.
- Processs all `static` variable declarations in the order in which they appear in the class.
- Process all `static` initializers in the order in which they appear in the class.

**Order of initialization for an instance:**

- Initialize class X if it has not been previously initialized.
- If there is a superclass Y of X, then initialize the instance of Y first.
- Process all instance variable declarations in the order in which they appear in the class.
- Pocess all instance initializers in the order in which they appear in the class.
- Initialize the constructor, including any overloaded constructors references with `this()`.

**Initializing final fields:**

- `final` instance variables must be assigned a value.
- If they are not assigned a value when they are declared or in an instance initializer, then they must be assigned a value in the constructor
  declaration.
- By the time the constructor completes, all `final` instance variables must be assigned a value exactly once.
