Pg. 304-314.

#### Overriding a Method

_Overriding_ a method occurs when a sublclass declares a new implementation for an inherited method with the same signature and compatible return type.

Rules to overrid a method:

- The method in the child class must have the same signature as the method in the parent class.
- The method in the child class must be at least as accessible as the method in the parent class.
- The method in the child class may not declare a checked exception that is new or broader than the class of any exception declared in the parent class method.
- If the method returns a value, it must be the same or a subtype of the method in the parent class, known as covariant return types.
- The method defined in the child class must be marked as `static` if it is marked as `static` in a parent class.

#### Redeclaring Private Methods

Private methods are not inherited, therefore declaring a method in the child class with the same signature is allowed.

#### Hiding Static Methods

A `static` method cannot be overridden because class objects do not inherit from each other in the same way as instance objects, they can only be _hidden_.
A _hidden method_ occurs when a child class defines a `static` method with the same name and signature as an inherited `static` method in a parent class.

To summarize: It is method hiding if the two methods are marked as `static` and method overriding if they are **not marked as** `static`. If one is marked
`static` and the other is not, the class will not compile.

#### Hiding Variables

Java doesn't allow variables to be overridden. A _hidden variable_ occurs when a child class defines a variable with the same name as an inherited
variable defined in the parent class. This creates two distinct copies of the variable within an instance of the child class: one instance defined in the
parent class and one defined in the child class.

```
class Carnivore {
    protected boolean hasFur = false;
}

public class Meerkat extends Carnivore {
    protected boolean hasFur = true;

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Meerkat m = new Meerkat();
        Carnivore c = m;
        System.out.println(m.hasFur);           // true
        System.out.println(c.hasFur);           // false
    }
}
```

#### Final Methods

Final methods simply cannot be overridden.
