Pg. 2-11.

### 1. Components of Java

The _Java Development Kit (JDK)_ contains the minimum software we need to do Java development:

- `javac`: Converts .java source files into .class bytecode
- `java`: Executes the program
- `jar`: Packages files together
- `javadoc`: Generates documentation

In Java 8 and earlier, the _Java Runtime Environment (JRE)_ was a subset of the JDK, which was used for running a program,
but it could not compile one. Now, people can use the full JDK when running a Java program.

### 2. Understanding the Class Structure

In Java programs, classes are the building blocks. An _object_ is a runtime instance of a class in memory. An object is
often referred to as an _instance_ since it represents a single representation of the class. A _reference_ is a variable
that points to an object.

Java classes have two primary elements: **methods** and **fields**. Together these are called the **members** of the class.
Variables hold the state of the program, and methods operate on that state.

Example class with one field and two methods:

```
public class Animal {
String name;

        public String getName() {
            return name;
        }

        public void setName(String newName) {
            name = newName;
        }

    }
```

The method name and parameter types are called the **method signature**. For example, the method signature of the above
setter method is setName(String).

### 3. Comments

There are 3 types of comments:

1. Single-line comment: Ignores anything after the two slashes.

`// comment until end of line`

2. Multiple-line comment: Starts with a /_ and ends with a _/. The \* at the beginning of each line between these symbols
   is **not mandatory**.

```
/* Multiple
 * line comment
 */
```

3. Javadoc comment: Similar to a multiline comment, but it starts with a /\*\*. This is the type of comment the Javadoc tool
   knows how to read.

```
/**
 * Javadoc multiple
 * line
 * comment
 */
```

Tricky example:

```
/*
 * /* ferret */
 */
```

This one does not complie, since the comment ends at the end of the second line, therefore there is an extra \*/, which
is invalid syntax.

### 4. Classes and Source Files

Most of the time, each Java class is defined in its own `.java` file. A _top-level type_ is a data structure that can be
defined independently within a source file.

A top level class is often `public`, which means any code can call it. Java **does not require** that the type be `public`.
For example, this is fine:

```
class Animal {
    String name;
}
```

When multiple classes are in the same file, **at most one** of the top-level types is allowed to be public, and it has to match
the file name.

### 5. Writing a main() method

The main() method it the starting point that the JVM looks for when it begins running a new program. The simplest possible class
with a main() method looks like this:

```
public class Zoo {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}
```

Any valid variable name and format can be used:

```
String[] args
String options[]
String... friends
```

The variable name args is common because it hints that this list contains values that were read in (arguments) when the JVM
started. The characters `[]` are brackets that represent an array. The characters `...` are called varargs (variable argument
lists).

While most modifiers, such as `public` and `static` are required for main() methods, there are some optional modifiers allowed:

`public **final** static void main(**final** String[] args) {}`

Running Zoo.java through the terminal:

1. `javac Zoo.java` will compile the code into bytecode, and it will create a file with the same name, but with .class extension
2. `java Zoo Bronx` will run the code, and Bronx will be passed as the first argument

OR

1. `java Zoo.java Bronx` does the same thing as above, but in one step

Additional information about passing parameters through the terminal:

- Multiple arguments can be passed by separating them with a comma
- If we need spaces in a parameter, we need to put it between quotes, e.g. `"San Diego"`
