Pg. 11-22.

### 1. Packages

Packages are grouped Java classes. The `import` statement tells the compiler which package to look in to find a class. If the package
name begins with java, then it came with the JDK. Otherwise, it is usually the website name in reverse (from where it came).

Importing all classes in the util package:
`import java.util.*`

The \* is a wildcard that matches all classes in the package. The `import` statement doesn't bring in child packages, fields or methods.
It imports only classes directly under the package. Only one wildcard can appear in an import statement, and only at the end.

The `java.lang` package is special, it never has to be imported (it is always imported automatically).

### 2. Naming Conflicts

When the class name is found in multiple packages, Java will give a compile error. If we explicitly import a class name, then it will
take precedence over any wildcards, for example we have a Date class in `java.util` and `java.sql` as well:

```import java.util.Date // THIS WILL BE PREFERRED
    import java.sql.*
```

If we need to use both Date classes, we can pick one to use in the import statement and use the other's **fully qualified class name**,
or we can drop both import statements and always use the fully qualified class name:

```
public class Conflicts {
    java.util.Date date;
    java.sql.Date sqlDate;
}
```

### 3. Creating Packages

We have the following example:

```
package packagea;
public class ClassA {}

package packageb;
import packagea.ClassA;
public class ClassB {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ClassA a;
        System.out.println("Got it");
    }
}
```

Compiling the code: `javac packagea/ClassA.java packageb/ClassB.java` <- this creates the .class files in the packages
Running the code: `java packageb.ClassB`

Compiling the code to another (classes) directory: `javac -d classes packagea/ClassA.java packageb/ClassB.java`
Running the code (all of these options do the same):

1. `java -cp classes packageb.ClassB`
2. `java -classpath classes packageb.ClassB`
3. `java --class-path classes packageb.ClassB`

### 4. JAR Files

A _Java Archive (JAR)_ file is like a ZIP file of mainly Java classes. The following command will compile with all the JARs in
a directory:

`java -cp "C:\temp\directoryWithJars\*" mypackage.MyClass`

This command will add to the classpath all the JARs that are in `directoryWithJars`. It won't include any JARs in the classpath
that are in a subdirectory of `directoryWithJars`.

Creating a JAR file containing the file in the current directory:
Option 1. `jar -cvf myNewFile.jar .`
Option 2. `jar --create --verbose --file myNewFile.jar .`

Specifying a directory instead of the current directory:

`jar -cfv myNewFile.jar -C dir .`

### 5. Ordering Elements in a Class

```
package structure; // package always comes first, but it is an optional element
import java.util.* // import comes after package declaration, but it is optional

public class Meerkat { // class is the next element, it is mandatory
    double weight; // then the class members, they can go in either order

    public double getWeight() {
        return weight;
    }
}
```
