Pg. 26-32.

### 1. Primitive Types

Java has 8 built-in data types, referred to as the Java _primitive types_. All Java objects are just a complex collection of these
primitive data types. A primitive is just a single value in memory, such as a number or character.

| Keyword | Type                        | Min value      | Max value     | Default value | Example |
| ------- | --------------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------- |
| boolean | true or false               | n/a            | n/a           | false         | true    |
| byte    | 8-bit integral value        | -128           | 127           | 0             | 123     |
| short   | 16-bit integral value       | -32,768        | 32,767        | 0             | 123     |
| int     | 32-bit integral value       | -2,147,483,648 | 2,147,483,647 | 0             | 123     |
| long    | 64-bit integral value       | -2^63          | 2^63 - 1      | 0L            | 123L    |
| float   | 32-bit floating point value | n/a            | n/a           | 0.0f          | 123.45f |
| double  | 64-bit floating point value | n/a            | n/a           | 0.0           | 123.456 |
| char    | 16-bit Unicode value        | 0              | 65,535        | \u0000        | 'a'     |

- A `float` requires the letter f or F following the number so Java knows it is a `float`. Without an f or F, Java interprets a
  decimal value as a `double`.
- A `long` requires the letter l or L following the number so Java knows it is a `long`. Without an l or L, Java interprets a number
  without a decimal point as an `int` in most scenarios.
- The bit size of a `boolean` is not specified, and is dependent on the JVM where the code is being executed.
- `short` and `char` are closely related, because both are stored as integral types with the same 16-bit length (they can often be
  cast to one another), the difference is that `short` is **signed**, which means it splits its range across the positive and negative
  integers. Alternatively, `char` is **unsigned**, which means its range is strictly positive, including 0.

  #### Writing Literals

`long max = 3123456789; // DOES NOT COMPILE, BECAUSE IT IS OUT OF THE RANGE OF INT`
`long max = 3123456789L; // COMPILES`

Java allows to specify digits in several other formats:

- Octal (digits 0-7), which uses the number 0 as a prefix - for example 017.
- Hexadecimal (digits 0-9 and letters A-F/a-f), which uses 0x or 0X as a prefix, for example: 0xFF, 0xff, 0XFf. Hexadecimal is case
  insensitive, so all of these examples mean the same value.
- Binary (digits 0-1), which uses the number 0 followed by b or B as a prefix, for example 0b10, 0B10.

#### Literals and the Underscore Character

Underscores can be used in numbers to make them easier to read. They cannot appear:

- at the beginning
- at the end
- right before a decimal point
- right after a decimal point

Multiple underscores can be placed next to each other.

### 2. Reference Types

A _reference type_ refers to an object (an instance of a class), and it holds the reference to an object by storing the memory
address where the object is located (sometimes referred to as a _pointer_).

Suppose we declare a reference of type `String`:

`String greeting;`

The `greeting` variable is a reference that can only point to a String object. A value is assigned to a reference in one of two ways:

- A reference can be assigned to another object of the same or compatible type.
- A reference can be assigned to a new object using the `new` keyword.

For example, the following statement assigns this reference to a new object:

`greeting = new String("How are you?");`

### 4. Distinguising between Primitives and Reference Types

- Primitive types have lowecase type names (in case of reference types, it is only a convention to use uppercase)
- Primitives do not have methods declared on them
- Reference types can be assigned `null` (primitives will give a compiler error)

### 5. Wrapper Classes

Each primitive type has a wrapper class, which is an object type that corresponds to the primitive. All wrapper classes
**inherit from the Number class, except Boolean and Character**.

The helper methods can result in a loss of precision, for example:

```
Double apple = Double.valueOf("200.99");
System.out.println(apple.byteValue());      // -56
System.out.println(apple.intValue());       // 200
System.out.println(apple.doubleValue());    // 200.99
```

Useful methods in `Integer`:

- `max(int num1, int num2)`, returns the largest of the two numbers
- `min(int num1, int num2)`, returns the smallest of the two numbers
- `sum(int num1, int num2)`, returns the sum of the two numbers
