Pg. 34-48.

### 1. Identifiers

An _identifier_ is the name of a variable, method, class, interface or package. There are 4 rules for legal identifiers:

1. Identifiers must begin with a letter, a currency symbol, or a \_ symbol.
2. Identifiers can include numbers but not start with them.
3. A single underscore \_ is not allowed as an identifier.
4. Reserved words cannot be used

### 2. Declaring Multiple Variables

We can declare and initialize multiple variables in the same declaration as long as they are all of the same type.

`int num, String value; // DOES NOT COMPILE`

`double d1, double d2; // DOES NOT COMPILE, TYPE SHOULD APPEAR ONLY ONCE`

```
void paintFence() {
    int i1, i2, i3 = 0;
}
```

In the above example, we declared 3 variables, and initialized only one.

### 3. Initializing Variables

#### Local Variables

A _local_ variable is a variable defined within a constructor, method, or initializer block.

The **final** keyword can be applied to local variables and is equivalent to declaring constants in other languages.

```
final int y = 10;
int x = 20;
y = x + 10;         // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

The **final** modifier can also be applied to local variable references. The following example uses an `int[]` array object.

```
final int[] favoriteNumbers = new int[10];
favoriteNumbers[0] = 10;
favoriteNumbers = null;     // DOES NOT COMPILE
```

The content of the array can be modified even if it is final, but the value of the reference cannot be changed.

Local variables do not have a default value and must be initialized before use. The compiler will report an error if we try to use
an uninitialized value:

```
public int notValid() {
    int y = 10;
    int x;
    int reply = x + y;  // DOES NOT COMPILE
    return reply;
}
```

In case of if statements, we need to pay attention that the variable that is used after the statement should get initialized in all
of the branches.

#### Instance and Class Variables

- An _instance variable_ is a value defined within a specific instance of an object.
- A _class variable_ is defined on the class level and shared among all instances of the class. It can even be publicly accessible
  to classes outside the class and doesn't require an instance to use (it is `static`).

Instance and class variables are not required to be initialized. As soon as we declare them, they are given a default value.
It gives `null` for an object, zero for the numberic types, `false` for a boolean. For char, it is `\u0000` (NUL).

#### Inferring the Type with var

We can use `var` instead of the type when declaring local variables. The name of this feature is _local variable type inference_.

- It can only be used in case of local variables (no constructors, method parameters, or instance variables).
- Once the compiler determines the type, it cannot be reassigned

```
public void reassignment() {
    var number = 7;
    number = 4;
    number = "five"; // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

- Variables declared with `var` should get a value on the same line
- `var` cannot be used in a multiple variable assignment statement
- `null` cannot be assigned to `var`

```
public void sameLine()
{
    var question;
    question = 1; // DOES NOT COMPILE
    var test = null; // DOES NOT COMPILE
    var a = 2, b = 3; // DOES NOT COMPILE
}
```

### 4. Scoping

Rules on scope:

- _Local variables_: In scope from declaration to the end of the block.
- _Method parameters_: In scope for the duration of the method.
- _Instance variables_: In scope from declaration until the object is eligible for garbage collection.
- _Class variables_: In scope from declaration until the program ends.
